431 Lab 02
================
Due **2020-09-14** at 9 PM. Last Edited 2020-09-04 22:44:52

Lab 02 is divided into 7 questions. Be sure to respond to each of them
by the deadline posted on the [Course
Calendar](https://thomaselove.github.io/431/calendar.html).

## R Markdown Template for Lab 02

You will analyze some data, and prepare a report in the form of an HTML
file, using R Markdown. We have provided you with a very useful R
Markdown document template for this assignment called
`YOURNAME-Lab02.Rmd` that you should use to complete your work.

  - The template is part of the [Data and Code
    repository](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/431-data) for the course.
    Follow the instructions posted there to download all of the files
    you’ll need in a ZIP file, including the template. That’s probably
    the easiest approach.
  - If you prefer, the `YOURNAME-Lab02.Rmd` file [is also available
    here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/THOMASELOVE/431-2020/master/labs/lab02/YOURNAME-lab02.Rmd).
    Just save the plain text file that you’ll see at that link to your
    computer with the appropriate .Rmd extension.

## The Data for Lab 02

Lab 02 uses data from the `midwest` data set, which is part of the
`ggplot2` package (which is part of the `tidyverse`) so by loading the
`tidyverse` package, we will have direct access to the `midwest` data by
typing `midwest`. The `midwest` data describe demographic information
for 437 counties in the midwestern United States. You might use
`?midwest` to obtain a little bit of additional information about these
data, and/or use `View(midwest)` to get a look at a spreadsheet-style
view of the data. We will focus on just four variables in Lab 02 taken
from this data set:

  - `county` = the name of the county
  - `state` = the name of the state (each county is contained in a
    single state)
  - `percollege` = the percentage of adult residents of the county who
    have completed a college degree
  - `inmetro` = an indicator variable, which takes the value 1 if the
    county is contained in a metropolitan area, and 0 if it is not

# Question 1

Write a piece of R code that counts the number of observations
(counties) in the data set within each state. Your result should also
specify the states which are included in these data. Hint: The `count`
function and the pipe `%>%` should be a big part of your code.

# Question 2

Use the `filter` and `select` functions in R to obtain a result which
specifies the `percollege` and `inmetro` status of Cuyahoga County in
the state of Ohio.

# Question 3

Use the tools we have been learning in the `ggplot2` package to build a
histogram of the `percollege` results across all 437 counties
represented in the data. Create appropriate (that is to say, meaningful)
titles for each axis and for the graph as a whole (do not simply use the
default choices.) We encourage you to use something you find more
attractive than the default gray fill in the histogram.

# Question 4

Based on your results in Questions 2 and 3, write a short description
(2-3 sentences) of the position of Cuyahoga County relative to the full
distribution of counties in terms of `percollege`.

# Question 5

Use `ggplot2` to build a single plot (a pair of histograms after
faceting would be one approach, or perhaps a comparison boxplot) which
nicely compares the `percollege` distribution for counties within
metropolitan areas to counties outside of metropolitan areas. Again,
make an effort to build and incorporate useful titles and labels so that
the resulting plot stands on its own, rather than just accepting all of
the defaults that appear.

# Question 6

Write a short description of where Cuyahoga County falls within the plot
you built in Question 5. the position of Cuyahoga County in terms of
`percollege` relative to the other counties within its `inmetro`
category. Two sentences should be sufficient here.

# Question 7

By now, we’d like you to have read the Introduction and Chapters 1-3 of
David Spiegelhalter’s *The Art of Statistics*. What is the most
important question you have after reading this material? Begin by citing
the book appropriately to describe what Dr. Spiegelhalter has brought to
your attention. Then state your question. Remember that a question ends
with a question mark.

# Submitting your Response

Build your entire response as an R Markdown file working from the
`YOURNAME-lab02.Rmd` template provided. Then use the Knit button in
RStudio to create the resulting HTML document. Submit both your revised
R Markdown file and the HTML output file to [Canvas in the Lab 02
section of the Assignments folder](https://canvas.case.edu) by the
deadline specified in [the Course
Calendar](https://thomaselove.github.io/431/calendar.html).

# A Few Tips

You are welcome to discuss Lab 02 with Professor Love, the teaching
assistants or your colleagues, but your answer must be prepared by you
alone. Don’t be afraid to ask questions, either via
[Piazza](https://piazza.com/case/fall2020/pqhs431) (use the lab02
folder), at [TA office
hours](https://thomaselove.github.io/431/contact.html) or before/after
class.

## Grading Rubric

Lab 02 will be graded on a 0-100 scale, where you will receive 10 points
per question for making a reasonable effort to build a good response
(even if that effort isn’t completely successful), and an additional 5
points on Questions 1-6 if your response is complete, correct and
well-written. Well-written responses use complete English sentences and
show all required R code to achieve the desired result.
